vdr-ttxtsubs - a teletext subtitle plugin for the Linux Video Disk Recorder
===========================================================================

About
-----

Description:
  This plug-in implements displaying, recording and replaying teletext
  based subtitles using the on screen display.

Current Maintainer:
  Tobias Grimm <vdr@e-tobi.net>

Original Author:
  Ragnar Sundblad <ragge@nada.kth.se>

Homepage:
  http://projects.vdr-developer.org/projects/show/plg-ttxtsubs

Old homepage:
  http://www.nada.kth.se/~ragge/vdr/ttxtsubs/

Copyright:
  (C) 2003 - 2008 Ragnar Sundblad
  (C) 2009 - 2011 Tobias Grimm

License:
  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
  Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
  option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
  or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
  more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
  this program (see file `COPYING`); if not, write to the
  Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston,
  MA 02110-1301 USA


Introduction
------------

This plug-in is for VDR >= 1.7.6. It currently needs a some changes to the VDR
code in order to work. A patch file is included in patches/ which can be safely
applied even if you don't use the ttxtsubs plug-in. For your convenience, the
patch is also available as a set of logical chunks, each covering a specific
feature.

The main responsibilities of the VDR patch are to enable the reception of the
teletext data stream and to discover the subtitle pages. So even without the
plug-in, the patch will allow you to record teletext subtitles, which e.g. can
be shown in 3'rd partly players like VLC.


Usage
-----

Important: In order to be able to receive the teletext subtitles, you must
enable the teletext subtitle support in VDR's setup. You will find this setting
in the DVB section of the setup.

Ideally the available subtitle pages / languages will be auto-detected. But this
might not be possible with all broadcasters. Especially the German broadcasters
don't care very much about the DVB standard in this regard and you have to
configure the subtitle page(s) for each channel manually.

In order to do so, you have to stop VDR and edit the channels.conf. After the
Tpid entry, you can add tuples of language codes and page numbers like this:

    ...:201+150=deu,151=fin...

!!! This format has changed in version 0.2.4 for VDR 1.7.21 (see HISTORY) !!!

See `man 5 vdr` for a detailed description of the channels.conf.

Future versions of the plug-in will provide an OSD setup for this setting, but
right now you are on your own.

To see the subtitles, you also must select the subtitle languages you would
like to see in the plug-ins OSD setup. In the future this might get somehow
merged with VDRs built-in DVB-subtitle selection.

In the plug-ins setup you can also configure some parameters which control how
the subtitles will be displayed.


Additional notes
----------------

A Note about reported problems with Digitainer II:

If you own a Digitainer II, you may run into an issue with the OSD and a
corrupted main menu. OlvierH reported, that the following setting at leas
partially solves this:

Advanced Chipset Features - AGP &P2P Bridge Control - VGA Share Memory Size: 64M
(default is 32M)
